# Diet-Recommendation-System-using-ML
Nutrition is about a healthy, balanced diet. Food and drink provide the energy and nutrients necessary for good health. Understanding these nutritional terms can help you make better food choices. Physical factors such as weight and height, lifestyle factors such as whether you have an athletic or sedentary job, whether you go to the gym or play sports, and whether you suffer from comorbidities. Everyone's style is different. Therefore, different people have different nutritional needs. Everyone's nutrition plan is different. Our meal recommendation system takes into account various factors that influence an individual's nutritional needs and creates a suitable meal plan for Indian cuisine.
# Objective
1.The goal is to develop a recommendation system that informs users of their daily nutritional needs based on their daily records.
2.The recommendation system would sort out nutritional values of various Indian food items, and recommend the user on their missing nutritional values and also recommend food item/s that would fulfil their respective daily nutrition(required).
3.Our other objective would also be to recommend the user about the deficiency diseases that they could develop if they do not fulfil their daily nutritional requirement(which the system would recognize by the user's daily logs).
# Dataset description
This dataset consists of 90 different items with all 16 attributes listed above, indicating that a particular type of food or range of packaged foods helps a particular customer maintain a nutritious diet. Develop a machine learning system to evaluate suitability. . Whether a particular food item adequately meets the column's requirements is indicated by the number 0 or . This dataset is a collection of foods essential for human survival, each with the following characteristics: Dietary supplement including breakfast, lunch and dinner. Vegetarian or non-vegetarian options. Carbohydrates; Lipids; Proteins; Minerals; Calcium; Salt;
# Methodologyy
Machine learning techniques were employed in the creation of this project. The meal was first grouped by calories using KMeans clustering, then depending on the input supplied, the food was then classified and predicted using a random forest classifier.
Separating food products into categories for breakfast, lunch, and supper is the first step in teaching the system what meals they belong in. According to which nutrients are required for a healthy weight reduction, weight increase, and weight maintenance, various nutrients are categorised. After clustering, the Random Forest classifier predicts which nearby foods are most suited for the suggested diet.
The user interface asks the user to enter details like gender, stature, bodyweight, as well as the justification for needing a diet. Some food products are classed and recommended to the user based on it and the suitable clustering.
